1988 at Bryan High concerning the Vietnam War. In
the interest of accumulating knowledge about the
war, I'm going to donate this tape to the A&M Oral
History Collection. Is that okay with you, Mr.
Price? Yes. Okay. Could you please tell us when and
where you were born? I was born in Abilene, Texas in
1939. Okay. Where did you go to high school and
college? I went to high school at a little place
called Hawley. And my college is at Texas A&M
University. I have two degrees from there. Okay,
what are those degrees in? I have a Bachelor of
Science in Industrial Education, a Master of
Science in Industrial Education, and currently
working on a PhD in Educational Administration.
Okay, when and where and why exactly did you join
the military? I joined the military in 1957, about
three months after I graduated from high school.
crime cause. At the time, it was sort of impossible
to go to college. That was an alternative open to
me. I took it and just stayed in. Made a career of it.
Had your father or any of your brothers been in the
military? To my knowledge, I was the first. Okay.
Could you please give us a brief sketch of your
military career before Vietnam? Before Vietnam,
I had spent approximately 15 years in the
military, various places around the world,
mostly in overseas areas in the Far East. Five
years in Central and South America. The main drill
is pretty much in the Far East. I got into Europe for
about six months on a TDY mission one time, but it
never really went that way. What was the TDY
mission? We went over on a major operation and we
were there for approximately six months. We took a
division over with maneuvers and stayed about six
months and came back. Okay. Upon going to Vietnam,
how much did you know and how much had the military
taught you about Vietnam, say, their culture and
Buddhism and geography, et cetera? Prior to going
over, I went to Fort Bragg, North Carolina for a
period of 60 days. at which time we were given
refresher courses on weapons that were primarily
World War II and Korean War vintage that we hadn't
been using to bring us back into contact with them.
Some older communications equipment we had.
During that period of time, we had four hours of
Vietnamese language training every day. some
general background classes on the political
aspects of Vietnam at the time, and as much of an
update on the military situation as possible. And
to some extent, we had some cultural
indoctrination in that our language teachers
were all Vietnamese, and had just recently come
from Vietnam, so we were acquiring something of a
cultural aspect also. So you were able to
communicate pretty well? I never really found
out. I got a few opportunities to speak, but mostly
my counterparts were Arvin officers, and they
seemed to have one goal in mind at the time, to learn
to speak English well enough that they could go to
an offshore school, which meant come to the States
and attend school here. If they couldn't speak
English, proficiently, they would never get the
opportunity to attend one of those schools. When I
dealt with them, I had to speak in English, but they
would talk Vietnamese with me. I never dealt too
awfully much with the enlisted. I didn't really
have a counterpart on the enlisted side. For some
reason, in their military, the enlisted, even the
NCOs, weren't given that much latitude or
authority. So if I wanted something done, I dealt
with an officer, and that made some problems, and
because of this cultural thing they had, sort of a
case system within the Army. They didn't really
want to deal with me, but they had to. I spoke
Vietnamese to the villagers when they would talk
to me, but that was a matter of if there were no Arvin
around, they would talk to me. If the Arvin were
there, they would not talk to me. Probably didn't
get to practice my language very much then. Did you
feel any resentment as How the officers treated
you like that? No. I accepted it as their system. I
thought it was rather foolish not to take
advantage of the NCOs like any other army does.
Realistically, the officers can't run the army.
There's an old saying in our army, the NCO is the
backbone of the army. You take the NCO away, you
don't really have an army. The officers can't do
it. They have too many other things. It was rather
apparent in the army that the officers trying to do
everything themselves, not letting the NCOs have
the responsibility they should, but things got
bogged down considerably. Um, did you, were you in
your unit, did you have a clear overall picture of
what exactly what America was trying to
accomplish there, or were you just sort of part of
the big picture? Well, within our province, I had a
pretty firm view of where we were headed since I
worked at both the province level and the district
level. I started at the district level, but we were
pretty well indoctrinated in country as to what
our goals were at the district level. And about
halfway through my first tour, I moved up to the
province level working with the operations and
intelligence and with the civilian side of the
house also. At that point, we were pretty well
indoctrinated about what the whole concept was
for the province and the country. So I had a
realistic view of where we were supposed to be
going with it. And that was pacification and
reinserting the people back into lands that they
had given up to the BC previously, which was
primarily what we were trying to do, just regain
the land and get rid of the BC. or reduce the VC to a
level that the locals could manage without a great
deal of military. Could you give us just an example
of what your unit would typically do in terms of
pacification?
Our program of pacification, when I first
arrived, was one of simply trying to regain land.
At that point, this was shortly after Tet, 1968, My
province, probably one of the worst in the whole of
Vietnam, the birthplace of the VC movement. So
they were pretty well entrenched. After Tet in
1968, they were very weakened because of the loss
of manpower. And we were expanding back out into
areas that the government forces had withdrawn
out of. So we were, at that point in time, simply in
the process of establishing fortified outposts
out into an area and sort of a circular effect. We'd
move them further out to try and gain back control
of that area. Sort of the inkblot. Yeah, so kind of
like an inkblot, like a ripple. You throw stone in
the water, you get ripples. That's what we were
doing. We were expanding out from the district
capital, trying to get control of the property
back that we had given up at some previous time. And
we were pretty effective during that period. We
lost a little bit, but we eventually worked it
back. And then I went back a year later for a second
tour. I went back to the same place, and I could see
what we had done in two years' time. Had it
improved? Oh, considerably. We were considered
one of our district's The one that the VC movement
was born in, we had taken it back almost 100%. It was
turned into what they would call a showcase of
South Vietnam. We had officials from all over the
country coming to see what we had done and how we had
done it. So we were successful within our province
and the one across the river, Gokong Province,
which was also very heavily infested. They were
successful enough with their program also that
between the two, provinces, we had got it fairly
well pacified. We didn't have a great deal of VC
activity when I left there on my second tour. Was
there, you say not a great deal, was there any VC
activity at night that you didn't see during the
daytime? Oh, there were sporadic raids and
occasional mortaring, but we didn't really
experience a great deal of heavy encounters.
Occasionally, there'd be a transiting hardcore
unit that somebody might stumble across and have
contact with. We didn't really have any major
hardcore units after 1968. They were pretty much
eliminated. In fact, all the hardcore units had
been moved up to higher levels. The battalions had
been pulled out and sent up to attack Corps
headquarters in Saigon, places like that. The
companies had been pulled up to higher levels.
Practically all of our hardcore regular units had
been eliminated because they had been taken out
and used and attacked somewhere else. All we had
left was a few stragglers and they were trying to
rebuild. They weren't very successful after Tet.
What was your opinion of, or is your opinion of, the
effectiveness of pacification overall? Because
it was a lot of programs.
That's kind of a hard one. It depends on where you
were as to what pacification meant. Wasn't
Project Phoenix also considered pacification?
Was it not pacification? I guess it would be
considered part of the pacification program in
that they were trying to eliminate the VC Cadry,
the infrastructure out in the field. To that
extent, it probably was part of the pacification,
but we didn't really consider it part of our
pacification program. We had no control over it.
It was primarily controlled by people in Saigon.
We had people in our province who were working in
the program, but we had no say over what they did or
didn't do. So we didn't really consider them part
of our program. In the big picture, yes, they were
trying to eliminate the infrastructure, so I
suppose that's pacification to that way of
thinking. It varied from province to province.
The people in the northern provinces were working
at it slightly different than we were. They relied
much, much more heavily on the military to pass by
regular army units because up there they were
dealing with a different type situation. The
number of hardcore units and North Vietnamese
units made it almost impossible for the locals to
deal with it at the level we were dealing with. And
our people were primarily the regional force,
popular force, platoons and companies. They're
not very well trained and not very well armed, just
locals trying to protect their home, which
wouldn't work in, say, I Corps or II Corps up north.
We'd be constantly looking at NVA battalions and
larger. Did you and your unit ever experience any
actual combat with North Vietnam troops or the
Viet Cong? So far as we know, There were never any
NVA in our area. We don't know of any. There were
rumors at one or two times that there were some
Chinese advisors. And at one point someone even
started a rumor about a Russian advisory
possibly, but that didn't get off the ground too
much. But the Chinese advisory rumor floated a
little bit. We never found anything to
substantiate it. We could never get any
sightings. As far as we know, it was purely . The
only thing we were dealing with was VC and local VC
at that, just I guess on the level of the militia VC
and occasional hardcore unit that would come
through. But no NVA to our knowledge. One problem
that seems to be picked up a lot in literature and
movies now is drugs in Vietnam and such. Did you
ever experience any trouble with drugs?
We had, to my knowledge, in the two years there,
only one incident with drugs. And these people
were from an aviation battalion who had been
put with us. And the only thing we had were two
pilots and a couple of crew chiefs to keep their
light observation aircraft flying out of our
airfield. They were found with marijuana. So it
wasn't that bad of a problem for them. They were
just using marijuana, nothing in the way of hard
drugs or anything. To my knowledge, they were the
only ones. They weren't in the same category as the
rest of us. The rest of us were advisors who
belonged to MACV. Those people were out of a
regular American aviation unit and assigned to us
for assistance. So the type of personnel is
slightly different. If you understand, the
American units probably had a lower caliber of
people than the advisors did, because all the
advisors were officers, high-ranking
non-commissioned officers. We had a few of the
lower enlisted, but they were few and far between.
So you didn't really come into contact with many
enlisted men? On a large scale? Not below the rank
of E-5, no. The E-4 and the privates, PFCs, we
didn't really, there was no place for them. We had
no place in our table of organization for those
people to be there. Everything we had called for an
NCO or an officer, so they were at least E-5 and up.
Occasionally we would get an E-4 in as a radio
operator, but that was about the extent of it.
Okay, another popular saying among the, I don't
know, among the officers, but about some
officers, that they just were concerned about
getting their ticket punched. Did your unit
experience any trouble with, you know,
career-hungry officers or people that just
wanted to advance themselves? Was that
counterproductive at all? To a point, perhaps.
But you have to understand that that ticket
punching thing didn't apply to People in the
advisory, they didn't have the same opportunity
for command that people in the regular units. An
officer would come to Vietnam if he went to a normal
unit. He was expected to go up on the front and
command a platoon, or a company, or a battalion, or
whatever, depending on what was ranked, to get his
command time. There really was no equivalency of a
command in the advisory effort. For instance, an
advisory team at district was made up of a major, a
captain, One sergeant first class, a staff
sergeant for a medic, an E-5 for a radio operator.
That's not much of a command. You don't command
anybody. So what was happening in Arvin is, or in
the advisory effort, is that they would be given
credit for command time for one year to it. So they
would get credit for command time. So there wasn't
any of this trying to find a job where you could lead
troops in combat. If you were there as an advisor,
after one year you were given the prerequisite
command time that every officer wanted to have on
his record when he left there. When they came into
the advisory effort, they were assigned a job.
They stayed with that job for the whole year. There
was no shifting around, so we didn't have that much
of a problem in terms of rapid turnover of leaders
and inconsistency and incontinuity of command.
You were there for a year. You did your year at that
job, and you were home. That short period caused
continuity to break off, but still, it wasn't that
difficult to come in and pick up an advisory job if
you'd been given any training at all before you got
there. The establishing of relationships was
probably the biggest thing you had to go through,
and that probably took about 90 days before you
really established any rapport with your
counterpart. productivity didn't fall off much
or anything, because very seldom you'd ever lose
the entire team at one time. It'd be an individual
at times, so the incoming person didn't really
fall into a hole, so to speak. There were people
there who were already in place and functioning,
so they could support the effort until he got
himself, you know, got his feet wet and ready to go.
So we didn't face the same problems that a regular
unit would face with that type of changeover. Do
you feel that overall the war could have been
better fought had there not been a one-year tour of
duty? Had there been, you know, an unlimited tour,
say, or something like in World War II? I'm sure it
probably could have, just from the experience
factor alone. By the time you got a good
understanding of how the war was supposed to be
fought, it was time to go home. Maybe your
replacement came in who had been there, and he was
coming back for seconds, and he knew what to do. If
he was a first-timer, then he had to go through the
learning process. And there's not really much you
can tell an individual about how you're going to
work in combat. I mean, you have the basic idea to
have the correct training, the tactics, the
theory, and everything. But the actual situation
is oftentimes far removed from what the training
was. You had at least a background to work with, and
you had to adapt. to what the situation was, and
that created the problem with the short tour. So I
would say, yes, probably could have been done
better if everybody had stayed there, as in World
War II, duration plus five.
Then we would have had people there who were
constantly doing the job that they were trying to
do, if they learned what they were supposed to do. I
kind of look at the French.
They kept their people there almost constantly.
There was no rotation in and out for those people,
but from the looks of what happened to them and many
of the history lessons that I've looked up, it's
how the French fought. They didn't learn much.
They were fighting, trying to fight a
conventional similar to what they fought in World
War II that wasn't working for them. And they got
away from that and went into the enclave theory,
the fortified outposts and what have you. That
didn't work either because it turned the whole
countryside over to the Viet Minh at the time. So if
they learned something and conducted the war in a
fashion that you could counter what the enemy did,
then yes, it would have been productive to keep
everybody there. Because then you would have
people who knew what to do, constantly. Do you feel
that the U.S. should have learned or could have
learned a lesson from the French and the Viet Minh
and apply that to the Viet Cong in terms of
conventional warfare? We couldn't have learned
anything from the French. We were using some of the
French tactics. And it turns out it didn't work for
them. It didn't work for us either. We were doing
some of the very same things that the French did. In
fact, almost everything the French did, we were
doing, except the very large, large outposts like
Dien Bien Phu and a few places like that. We had
large fire bases and everything, but we never
settled down in one place that long, so we differed
from the French in that respect. But we were doing a
lot of the things the French did in every aspect of
it. It turned out it didn't work for us either
because we couldn't control the land. There's an
old saying in combat, or if you don't control the
other guy's property, then you can't win. So we
never were sure that we controlled anything other
than what we were physically standing on top of at
the time. You go into an area, you supposedly clear
that area, and then we leave. Five hours after we
leave, the VC are back. That's one of their base
areas, and they go right back into it. They sort of
go with the flow, so to speak. They pull away if
we're too strong. If we're not strong enough, they
might give it a shot, see if they can do something to
us, but very seldom did they ever try to hit us face
on unless they had at least a 3-1 superiority on us.
Other than that, it was just a little hit and run,
disappear into the brush. Did your unit ever leave
the land it had reoccupied with the South
Vietnamese, and if so, did the VC move back in? In my
tours and in between the tours, the land that we had
moved back in and occupied or put out on some was
still under our control when I left at the end of the
third year. We were still there, pretty well
entrenched, and the people were coming back to the
land Some had never left, of course, but a few that
did were moving back out. We were expanding out
beyond those ranges anyway. So as far as I can see,
we never lost any ground after 68-12.
Do you feel that, though, if your unit had pulled
out in the foreseeable future, would the Viet Cong
have come back? Well, if we're speaking of the
advisors, I don't think so, because we weren't
doing any fighting. Five guys out there in the
middle of nowhere can't. Realistically, we
weren't a combat force. We were there just to tell
other people. But they were reaching a point where
they could do fairly well on their own. A good
example, the advisory effort was starting to wind
down before I left here. And they were pulling
people out of the Arvin units. So at the time I left,
all of the advisors at the company level and the
battalion levels had been removed. And the only
people left still advising were at regiments and
division headquarters level. And that was only
two or three people. And as best we could tell,
those units that were working in and around our
areas were doing a better job than they had when the
advisors were there. Because they had to do the job
then. With the advisors on hand, a lot of the things
that the Arvins should have been doing, the
advisors were doing. In a sense, the people who
worked with the Arvin were their own worst
enemies. They weren't letting the Arvin do the job
when it should have been done. The old American, go
get them, we've got to do it now, hurry up, sort of
got in the way. The Vietnamese didn't work in that
fashion. They were playing at it very slowly. If it
took five days to do something, then that's the way
they went at it. But the Americans didn't want to
work that slow. You start an operation, you want to
get it bang, bang, bang, get it done. And they would
short circuit the Vietnamese just to get things
moving faster, and it took away, to me, some of the
initiative that the Vietnamese should have had
and weren't showing because they knew the
Americans were going to do it for them. And when
those people left, those divisions appeared to be
working better than they were when they had the
Americans down to company levels. Do you feel that
careerism and officer advancement was a problem
in Arvin, and did that, and corruption possibly,
did that affect the way they fought?
I would think probably it had to. Several
instances come to mind. One, we had some
Candidates for officers and candidates for
warrant officer, we were trying to get promoted
locally, and we couldn't do it. They would make
them acting officers, but the best we could find
out is they didn't belong to the right family or
they didn't have the proper connections to be
commissioned. So there was, I guess, what you
would have to call a case system. Either you
belonged to the right family or you had the right
connection to become an officer. And it was very
unlikely that anyone else would ever do it. And
then as far as corruption around, there was some.
We know for a fact that some of the jobs were being
paid for. It was pretty much a standing joke. If you
wanted to be a province chief, you'd come up with
$25,000 to $50,000, depending on which province
you wanted to go. You could get the job. district
chiefs were a little bit less, but there were
places that
officers could go and make pretty good money at it,
because they were rampant corruption going on. We
knew that, but there's not much we could do about
it. We had to live with it. It depended on how well
the guy did his job in relation to making all the
money for himself. An example, one of the first
district chiefs I ran into when I got there was a
major Our district was very well controlled. He
was doing an excellent job, but he kind of got
caught up short somewhere from what we heard when
he got relieved and that he wasn't paying enough
kickback to the people upstairs and they fired
him. And his replacement, while he might have been
paying the kickback and everything, he wasn't
doing the job that the Major did and we were losing
the ground with him until we got him replaced. He
was pretty much satisfied with the status quo. We
don't do anything. D.C. don't do anything. We just
sit here and watch. It took a while to get rid of him,
but eventually we could. With enough pressure
from the top side, we forced him to be removed. I'm
sure there was corruption everywhere. From what
we can see in here, it's not something we set out to
prove, but you could always make a case for it, I
guess, if you wanted to. Did you and your
colleagues there feel really frustrated, like
you were just spinning your wheels with a bunch of
corrupt officers?
Did y'all waste any time at all? Maybe, perhaps it
was our province, but we had a pretty good group of
people there as far as I could see. Our province
chief was a lieutenant colonel, and he was very
good at his job. and running the civilian side of
the government and also the military side
operations. One of the better people that I knew
out there. I don't think that overall we had too
much of a problem with them. We were getting what we
wanted done with them. Sometimes it was
frustrating that we didn't seem to be moving fast
enough. I guess that's the Americans. get up and go
get them right now, and let's not wait any time. So
that was the only thing that was really
frustrating. We didn't seem to be moving at a fast
enough rate for where we wanted to go, but that's
the difference in cultures. They just didn't work
at the same speed we wanted to. This probably
wasn't common or might have even been nonexistent
among you and other MACD officers, but were you
aware of any incidents at all of bragging or men
killing their own officers? among the Americans,
sir? Not in our, in the advisory. I doubt seriously
that any of that would have occurred.
Some misleading movies out, Platoon, I think, had
an incident where several sergeants were talking
about, you know, fragging an officer. One other TV
show, Vietnam Story, I had an incident on one of
theirs where an entire group of NCOs and privates
were going to frag the company commander, but
those were in the line units. And the advisory had a
much closer knit group, five or six people. If you
work in a province, you only have 30 or 40 people
there. And everybody's fairly high-ranking NCOs
and officers, so we didn't have that kind of a
problem. I don't know of any incident of any
advisory personnel being fragged.
What did you think of the motivation and the
inspiration of the Arvin troops compared to the
North Vietnamese troops?
Rather poor.
have to attribute their lack of motivation to
their leadership and the leadership being what it
was somewhat poor the way they went about it as a
comparison at the district i had one company and
one platoon who were all xbc they had come over on
the chew white program which when they
surrendered they were repatriated given some
indoctrination and training and allowed to go
back to where they came from most of them joined the
rf companies the pf companies so we had one company
was all XBC and one platoon that was all XBC. In
comparison to the other companies they had, they
were much more aggressive and a whole lot more
willing to get out and do the job. In terms of going
out with someone, after I kind of got over the idea
that they were XBC, I found it a whole lot easier to
get things done and felt a lot safer going out with
those people. It was like they were telling them to
do what they wanted to do, and when the shooting
started they wanted to get involved in it whereas
the other companies you might just look around
find yourself standing there by yourself because
they've gone the other direction so i would think
they were much much better motivated for whatever
reason they were motivated or how they got them
motivated i don't know but they seem to be more
motivated than they are overall do you think it's
fair to say you could attribute that to the fact
that that the north had ho chi minh to rally around
whereas the south the government was more or less
just were no stable leaders for the people well if
you're talking about nba probably talking about
vc uh the average vc is where we were uh didn't know
much about ho chi minh and could care less what he
wanted or didn't want the vc in the southern part of
the country were being motivated locally by i
guess nationalism if you want to look at it that way
we could never really get any your idea some
of that drafted but whatever means they used to get
them indoctrinated to get a more motivated it was
working people they just go on the village okay you
know part of the BC but they got more out of them than
the garbage to get out of them or whatever means
they were using they didn't usually want to talk to
you too much about how they got into it. The biggest
thing I could see was that many of them were
disappointed or disillusioned with what the B.C.
had offered and was reasonably quick. It wasn't
turning out to be exactly the picture that the B.C.
probably had sold them when they went with them.
They were just getting a little frustrated out
there that nothing was happening like they were
supposed to. They couldn't see any progress being
made. If the B.C. were any better than the other,
they were much more in danger of being with the
B.C., so they eventually just give it up and quit.
Do you think there was any cooperation between the
North Vietnamese and the Viet Cong, or were they
two separate entities?
I don't really know. From reports, we do know that
toward the latter end of the war, the NVA were, in
some cases, actually running the VC units. They
went in first as advisors with them. We do know that
some of the BC units in the northern areas were
being led by North Vietnamese officers toward the
latter part of the war. There was some
distrust in the southern part, as best we can find
out. They didn't really trust the few NVA that got
down into that area. They were mostly over toward
the Cambodian border, but from reports and intel
we could get from over there, The few NVA that were
down there weren't really accepted and nobody
really trusted them as far as they could find out.
There was always that feeling they were trying to
take over. That's one theory that kept cropping
up. The NVA were trying to take over. The few
high-ranking officers and officials from the VC
that did defect pretty much were putting that idea
forth, that they had a feeling that if they did win,
that the NBA was going to be in trouble and not the
D.C. That was kind of a brink point for some of them,
particularly the high-ranking people that
defected. On how effective a strategy do you think
bombing was in Vietnam? Should there have been
more, say, in the North or in Laos and Cambodia?
Bombing in South Vietnam, I don't know. I have to go
on speculation and stories. We had no bombing in
our area. We had one or two B-52 strikes that I can
remember, and as far as where they went, I could see
no value for them anyway. They were in suspected BC
areas and out in the mangrove swamps. as the best as
we could determine later after looking at the
strike assessment photos. We tore up a lot of mango
trees and made some bigger pools out there, but
fortunately, no, we didn't hurt anybody. I have a
feeling that dropping that stuff in the jungle was
about the same effect. You knocked down a lot of
trees and made a few clearings here and there, but
effectively you were hoping you were going to hit
something with all that bombing. Occasionally
they would get lucky, but I don't know. in the South
that the bombing was all that effective. Maybe in
the North, if some of the targets had been changed,
it might have changed the complexion of the war,
but that's pure speculation.
Do you think that the United States could have won
the war? And if so, maybe, you know, with more
pacification, and what kind of programs would you
have had a choice?
If I would have had a choice,
We would have left there.
I think Kennedy at one point was talking about
pulling all the advisers out before his
assassination. I think somewhere in the
administration at that time, there was already
the feeling that we couldn't win the thing over
there. And the rumors were floating up and down to
the military at the time. I was still here in the
States. There were things being put out inside the
Army probably in the military that civilians were
never made aware of. But there was a pretty
definite feel that Kennedy wanted to get us out of
there. He couldn't see any way to win the thing,
except just get much, much more involved. And even
then, he couldn't really. Some of his people were
telling him, no matter what we put in there, we
couldn't win the war. Johnson came along, it
changed for whatever reason. Whether it was the
macho image we can't afford to back down or
whatever, I'm not sure. I don't know that we could
have done anything differently that would have
made any difference in the outcome unless we were
willing to make a total commitment to a war and put
whatever manpower and machine power it required
to get in there and physically take every inch of
ground away from them right up to the Chinese
border. then you might have effectively won the
war, but you would have had to control North
Vietnam also. Do you think that the Viet Cong were
just too deeply rooted into South Vietnam by the
time the U.S. entered, or was that part of the
problem? By the time we got into it, they were well
entrenched. A lot of those people were Viet Minh
that had stayed in the South after the separation
of the French left.
A lot of them were Viet Minh who had infiltrated
south after that period of time and started the
V.C. movement down south. The V.C. movement
wasn't what we were fighting initially or what the
Arvin was fighting initially. They were fighting
Viet Minh just like the French were. Eventually it
changed over to V.C. with the local southern
organization. But they were pretty well
entrenched already.
had been built up during World War II, had been
built up during the fighting of the French, and
essentially the cadre and everybody were in
place. It was just a matter of recruitment to build
up the forces.
I think that they lost an opportunity to settle, I
think, politically in French land,
realistically, considering everything Dr.
Anderson's talk about it and everything I've read
or heard since then, it really, we lost it when we
refused to talk to Ho Chi Minh, and we lost it again
when the French left, when they should have just
turned it back over to the Vietnamese and let them
settle it themselves.
That's a personal view. I don't really see that we
could have done anything realistically that
would have changed it, maybe prolonged it
somewhat, but I don't think it would have changed.
A lot of people seem to think that after Tet, the
Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese were so weak and
that we could have won. Do you feel that without the
media and protesters bringing such a negative
image on the war, do you feel we could have won? I
think, and this is personal opinion, that if we
ever were going to win the war, it would have had to
have been after Tet. We would have had to have
committed 110% and gone in and done the job.
Because we did a very thorough job on destroying
most of all the hardcore VC units in the South. And a
great deal of damage inflicted on whatever NVA
units had participated. So I think if we ever had a
chance to win, it was immediately after 10. We
didn't follow up on it. And yes, the news media was
probably a direct cause of why we didn't. They
looked upon it as a defeat. And all the military
experts tell you, we won. We won. And we had them on
the ropes and ready for the count if we'd just gone
in and done something else. But we backed off
because of this publicity and outcry at home.
What's your opinion of draft dodgers and anti-war
protesters, like Jane Fonda, for example?
Well, the draft dodgers that left the country,
I didn't agree with them. But on the other hand, I
couldn't say they were wrong. If you believe in
something strongly enough, then obviously you
have a right to do it. like to tell people
occasionally. I stood in front of the flag for 22
years to give a guy a right to do that. So who am I to
criticize him if he goes if I'm defending his right
to do it? And I can't criticize him if he goes. I had
more respect for those people than I did for some of
the anti-war protesters, particularly the ones
that tried to influence the gis here in the states
those who are out there trying to work on the public
is one thing those who aim directly at the military
and try to influence the desertion rate the awol
rate those
they weren't really doing anything to me it was
worthwhile the others I guess if you look at the
broad view, they were influencing the political
arena. If you want something done, you have to
influence politics. Those people who were trying
to convert people and get them to desert were...
I don't feel they had a right to be doing that. If
anybody had anything against anybody within that
particular group, the rest of them... They were
doing their thing, I was doing mine. As long as we
didn't really get in conflict with each other, I
couldn't see anything wrong with it. They were
entitled to do it. They were right to do it. How
realistic do you think movies like a few popular
ones were, Platoon, The Deer Hunter, Apocalypse
Now, how realistic were those in portraying like
in Vietnam? Deer Hunter is a farce. It had nothing
to do with Vietnam. If they were trying to put
across a theme, I'm not sure what theme they were
trying to put across. But in terms of being
realistic about the war, total bummer.
Full metal jacket.
That's based on Marines. I've never had much of a
concept of Marines doing anything right. Still, I
couldn't see that even Marines would be doing
things as stupid as some things were going on in
that movie. The only one I've seen that has any
realistic idea to me of what the war is going is
Platoon. It got down pretty much at that level on
the front line with the guys. There's some things
that showed or portrayed in the movie that
probably wouldn't have been happening in the
actual situation, but it's about as close to
realistic as I can see from the movies I've seen.
It's about the most realistic down at the front
line level. Some things in it I was sort of blown out
of proportion, but it made the movie better. I gave
the story a little bit more zip or whatever you want
to look at it, but On the whole, it probably is the
most realistic portrayal of what the frontline
soldiers were involved in. The rest of them was
just sort
of, I don't know, a bump to me. They didn't portray
the war. They put across other messages, but it
wasn't, if that was their attempt to put some other
message across, they did that very well, but
didn't, as far as showing what the war was, not a
very good portrayal.
What do you think about the stereotype that
persists in a lot of these movies about the
unstable, mentally
unstable, who can't adjust to society? Is that
realistic at all? Well, we're dealing with a
portrayal of a one-time, one-tour person. And I
have friends who were there a lot longer than I was.
I spent two tours there. I had friends who were
there as much as eight years.
I think if anybody was in a position to become
paranoid, we were. You're 60, 70 miles away from
nobody, and the only thing you've got to rely on is
the guy next to you and some doubtful Vietnamese to
keep you alive. If anybody should have come out of
there paranoid, it probably should have
been us. Personally, I think that most of these
cases are real... off the deep end type when you get
back here. There was something on the unstable
side before they went anywhere. Vietnam just was
the trigger. Had they stayed at home, it would have
happened anyway at some later date because of
something else. Most of the people I know who were
there two or three times weren't affected like
that. So I don't see how other people decided.
Being there at one time would drive somebody over
the deep end unless he wasn't already somewhere.
pretty close to that point anyway. Any other type
of pressure or situation later on probably would
have gotten the same results. It's just that it was
much more compact and put on him in a very short
space of time in Vietnam where it would have just
taken a longer time to build up out here, but I think
it would have happened anyway. So to me it's unfair
to say that